>> Deploying large net boot networks.
Large net boot networks.
A couple of good things in here.
My name is Joel Rennich, CE manager for Enterprise Sales.
So we do nice enterprise things.
So a couple things about net boot in here,
I've got a favorite a personal favorite,
I'm very proud of this, very excited.
I've yet to get anybody to use it yet.
But I'm very excited about it, entry
that we have that changes net boot,
allows you to do more load balancing,
get more stuff out of it.
We then have Mike Bombich who's
coming up here who's talking about.
( Applause )
>> Where was that when I said who I was?
( Laughter )
( Applause )
>> Alright, alright, alright.
Thank you.
>> Whey don't you have on a blue shirt?
>> I don't have on a blue shirt, I was hoping
to blend in the background a little bit more.
But I didn't get any purple stripes.
Blend, yeah I know.
So with new features, a system utility and then we have
Chris from Pixar who's coming out here with some great ideas
of how they do a lot of their management
within their solutions.
Click. So what you'll learn, how Pixar
uses NetBoot automated system utility
and how to make NetBoot systems more redundant and
this would be the American definition of redundant.
Not to make redundant as in fire people.
Alright? So we're giving you more options not less.
So we're getting old enough with net boot now
that we can use words like traditional, old style.
Alright so traditional net boot balancing, you've got a
couple of net boot servers out there you've got a bunch
of net boot clients, net boot clients boot up they ask
who their net boot daddy is, they get that information.
The net boot server that handles
them will cache their Mac address.
In further boots that server will prefer that client.
In a decent world with a lot of randomization all your
machines over a period of time will kind of balance
out across all the servers based upon load.
However, it is quite possible that at one time if you
only boot half a lab or depending on just how the chips
or the Mac addresses fall, you may end up
with all of your clients on one system.
Alright? So while it is randomized and while it is
balanced, it is not necessarily randomly balanced.
So that's traditional net boot balancing.
Alright? Still in 10.4 still
works nothing changed there.
If you're using this and you have a
set up and all that, nothing changes.
What we have now is the fancy new net boot load balancing.
Alright? Ooooh.
So if you go into your NB image info dot p list
file, you'll find that you can put in a new key.
Load balanced server.
This is a string that can be either fully
qualified DNS name or it can be an IP address.
Alright? Now your clients will boot up.
They'll send out the boot strap discovery protocol packet.
They will get a net boot server,
the net boot server will respond.
Net boot server responds with a couple
of different pieces of information.
One is where it's going to go for its TFTP image.
The other is where it's going to go
for its NFS or HTTP system image.
The address either the DNS name or the IP address that's
given in both the TFTP or the NFS or HTTP URL is going
to be the IP address or the fully qualified DNS name that
you provide in that string under the load balanced server.
What does that mean?
Let me show you.
Alright. We've got some fun new iMacs on the right side,
we've got some G5 Xserves, or Intel Xserves,
oh I'm sorry, Intel Xserves on the other side.
We've got some net boot servers that are also up there too.
So this is kind of a common larger environment net
boot set up where we have a DHCP helper running
on the switch that's forwarding on the information.
Alright? Now my iMacs are going to begin net booting.
Begin net booting, there we go.
And they're going to go off and they're
going to get a net boot response.
That net boot response is going to come
directly from those net boot servers.
So far we are no different than any other set up
that you may have where this is already working.
Now where the magic happens, we have
a hardware load balancer, right?
A variety of companies have Coyote
Point, couple other places that do this.
The load balancer will allow you
to have a virtual IP address.
The load balancer as a virtual IP address takes all the
incoming connections on that IP address and distributes
that traffic across the server farm behind it.
Ah! So now when my net boot servers respond
back with who your TFTP and NFS share point is,
they can actually provide that
virtual IP on the load balancer.
Now all of your traffic back to those net boot
servers, will go through that load balancer
and be truly distributed across the back end systems.
Alright? Load balancers can have a lot of logic in them.
They can redirect clients to new
machines if one machine goes down.
They can maintain state, they can do all kinds of fun stuff.
Alright? So this gives you a huge amount of options
of how you can actually make your net
boot system significantly more redundant.
What we're really excited about here is
the possibility of hosting images on Xsan.
Alright? Leopard, new Xsan, all kinds of
good stuff, right, go in there, do this,
put the net boot servers up there, alright?
Post your image on that, I can have a server farm providing
that net boot image and load balanced entirely across it.
Ah! Perception coming through here, okay?
So some great ideas that you can
use now for load balancing just
with that one additional net boot
setting and that NB image info P list.
Now keep in mind experimental.
Alright? We're very interested in what you think you
can do with this, we're very interested in seeing some
of the setups that you might have, we're very interested
in helping you with this redundancy and this larger scale.
When I lie awake at night thinking about net boot, I
don't think I do it as much as Mike, but I sometimes do.
And I think about net boot and I think about what it
can do for your set up, what it can do for your systems.
I really get excited about this, I really, really do.
Alright? So we're calling this the super kinky net boot.
( Laughter )
>> Combining the elements of the load
balancing that we're talking about,
combining all of this into to make
a very redundant net boot solution.
We want this to be redundant across network links,
we want this to be redundant across net boot servers.
The loss of any single thing will not slow you down.
You'll be able to net boot regardless.
Alright? As long as you don't lose all your clients.
If you only have one client, make
two, then you can get that.
So again, it will be using a combination
of DNS, so bind named views,
so you can actually do DNS resolution differently
depending on where your clients are booting up from,
we're also going to do this with some Cisco or
some other networking IOS where you can go in there
and do some interior routing protocols with
OSPF or whatever you might want to use.
So this is a very highly advanced, this
isn't something you put in, in an afternoon,
but it's something that you can really plan
out to truly really increase your scale
and increase your redundancy with a net boot solution.
So let's go over this.
We have the WAN, we have Chicago, we have
LA, net boot systems in both sides okay?
We now have our net boot servers somewhere else.
Now try to find a third place, maybe New York.
But eh, it's kind of cliche.
So somewhere else.
A secret undisclosed location in your server room.
In there you have your net boot systems you have a couple
of different IP addresses, your routing system sets
up using OSPF, something else, you
have these IP addresses show up here.
Alright? My Chicago net boot systems are going to net boot.
I'm using BSDP helpers, DHCP helpers so that BSDP
query response goes back to my central location.
I change that NB image info p list key
so that the net boot server
that its responses are going to be NB.apple.com.
Alright? So I have two net boot
servers there in my server room.
They're set up to respond with NB.apple.com.
I have DNS view set up in Chicago.
My systems in Chicago resolve NB.apple.com
to that 10.0.10.10 address.
This means that my Chicago net boot systems will now
be definitely net booting off of local net boot pare.
That 10.0.10.10
address can actually be the virtual IP
of a hardware load balancer that's actually balancing
the traffic between two net boot servers behind it.
So far so good.
Essentially what I talked about a couple of slides ago.
Now I'm going to LA and I boot a system in LA.
Have a similar BSDP traffic, the
response back is NB.apple.com.
We have local DNS we have a view set up.
This now turns into 192.168.10.10.
So the same configuration to net boot
server somewhere off in the middle
of nowhere are actually telling the clients
to go net boot off different systems.
And those net boot systems are different based
upon your location based upon those DNS views.
Not anything that's very complicated to set up whatsoever.
Alright? Now the other thing that I can do with this,
not only can I resolve that to a local IP address
using interior routing protocols OSPF like I said,
getting probably not a six pack, but maybe a twelve or
twenty four pack of beer to your Cisco or your Nortel
or whoever guy that you have to do that for you.
You can actually do redundant links.
So now that 10.0.10.10 address
has a very low path cost in at Chicago.
But if it can't be reached in Chicago because
the link is down, that load balancer went away,
it can actually appear over in your central server room.
Ah! So now your Chicago clients net boot, they get
NB.apple.com, they resolve that locally
to 10.0.10.10 , they boot
off the local systems if they're there.
If the local systems aren't there, the network and the
router will actually pass all that traffic across the WAN
or the mantling that they have back
to wherever else you want to go.
So you have instantaneous redundancy
on your net boot service.
If you're using HTTP to net boot your
systems, stateless protocol right?
You should be able to get away
with having your live clients.
Survive a server failure and be redirected by the
network or the hardware load balancers to another server.
Ah! That's where this gets cool.
Alright? Again experimental but
we want to give you the tools
so you can start testing around with this and see what you can do.
And now you can end up with a server
farm of net boot servers.
Where you can pull them in and out without having
to worry about all the clients being shut down
or what interruption this is going to give them.
So again, redundant across net boot
servers, redundant across networks.
Very, very redundant, lots of stuff.
So very interested anyone that wants to do this.
Again, this is my dream.
I wake up in cold sweats, aahhh we can do this.
So hopefully it gives you some options and all of this
is predicated off that one little entry in the P list.
So now that I've bored you with
networking, bring on Mike Bombich.
( Applause )
>> Talk about System Image Utility.
>> That one, don't press the other one.
>> What's the other one do?
Well thank you, we all need to wake up now.
No I'm kidding.
( Laughter )
Because last year, if you remember
last year I did a just total geek fest
and we looked at net boot at the packet level.
And it was great.
I mean we had this beautiful slide that was like twenty
feet high with just a bunch of little hexadecimal.
Just awesome.
So we're going to change gears this year.
I'm going to talk about one of the Apple applications
that leverages net boot technology for mass deployment.
We're going to talk about System Image Utility.
It's been completely overhauled for Leopard.
It still retains the core functionality of creating a
net boot, net install and a restore based net boot set.
But if you compare the interface to what we had in Tiger
and Panther, you can see that it's completely different.
They really don't bear much resemblance
to each other at all.
That's because in Tiger System Image Utility
had that horizontally aligned tabbed interface.
And if we ever wanted to add functionality to
System Image Utility, we had to add another tab.
So there's only so many tabs that you can add to
an application before it starts looking like one
of those applications developed by another vendor.
And obviously we don't want to go there.
We don't want to keep adding tabs.
So Apple addressed these limitations by implementing
Automator technology in System Image Utility.
This is great.
System imaging, whenever you break down
something into discrete tasks, excuse me.
So we're going to break things down
into discrete tasks and then we're going
to have an Automator action for each one of them.
Whenever we break things down into discrete tasks
like this it's easier to provide support for things,
for lots of new features like volume partitioning.
I'm not going to go into tons and tons
of detail on System Image Utility.
The folks that actually develop it are going to talk more
about that on Friday at I think it's 5ive pm in Nob Hill.
So please go ahead and check out that session.
With the arrival of Intel Macs, system
administrators have a lot of new opportunities
for deploying Macs for doing Mac OS X deployment.
At the same time we also face some
new deployment challenges.
I think that building blocks specifically Automator
actions is exactly the technology that we need
to meet the diverse needs of Macintosh
system administrators.
In the next few minutes I'm going to give a brief
overview of system image utility just so that we're all
on the same page with what's new in Leopard.
Then I'll talk about how we can extend the functionality
of System Image Utility and finally I will talk
about how we can create our own Automator actions
that will plug in to System Image Utility.
So let's take a look at the interfaces of the
Tiger and the Leopard System Image Utility.
In Tiger you've got that horizontally
aligned tabbed interface and in Leopard
when you first launch system image
utility, you get two options.
I can create a net install set
or I can create a net boot set.
If I click on net install set, I can click on
continue and get a super easy deployment solution
or I can click on customize for more advanced options.
As soon as you click on customize you can see that
Automator is now part of the DNA of System Image Utility.
When you first start customizing your net install image you
get an interface that's very much like that of Automator.
You get a palette of Automator actions that are specific to
System Image Utility and then on the right you get a canvas
for assembling your deployment work flow.
So you can see a lot of the actions up here.
Basically they took the tab, each tab from the interface
in Tiger and they turned it into an Automator action.
So the main actions, the most important ones of course,
are define image source and create image and then the rest
of them up there are just extras
to give us some more customization.
So let's take a look at a basic work flow.
The first thing that we're going to do is
we're going to define our image source.
So we're going to pick either a
net boot or a net install set.
If I choose a net install set, which is my favorite
because I like mass deployment, we have two options.
We're going to get either a package based deployment
or we're going to get a restore based deployment.
Which one we get depends on the
type of source that we chose.
So if I chose a Mac OS X installer DVD as my
source, I'm going to get a package based deployment.
If I picked a volume that's already got Mac OS X installed
on it, I'm going to get a restore based deployment.
So next let's say I want to partition
my target disk on my client machines.
That's great.
I can't really do anything with that second
partition just yet, but we're going to get there.
That's kind of the point of this presentation.
So next let's say I want to apply
some system configuration settings.
I want to bind my client systems to the same
directory service that my master machine is bound to.
Let's say I want to change the file name of the
bi-host preferences to match the Mac address
of the current machine and say
I want to set the computer name.
I'll go ahead and do that here.
Obviously we want automation, go head and drop that in here.
In this case, I'm going to go ahead and say there's a volume
on my client machine's named Macintosh
and that's what I wanted to use.
I could say that some user sitting in
front of the machine could pick the volume.
That's a nice safety step.
But kind of anti-automation.
I also want to erase before installing to
make sure I get my block level deployment.
Finally and this one must come last,
we're going to create our image.
So the first five Automator actions
didn't actually do anything.
They just kind of modified some preferences and then there's
a dictionary that's passed down to each Automator action.
It's this last Automator action create image that
actually takes those preferences specified earlier
and it will create a net install
image, create my master image
and then do anything else extra
to configure that net install set.
So at this point I think we could say that
System Image Utility covers the basics.
We can create a master image, we can create our deployment
set, we can do some basic pre and post restore actions.
And we can do all of this with automation.
For a lot of system administrators, this is
fantastic, this is a great base deployment.
For a lot of other people though and I think probably a
lot of people in this room, we do want a little bit more.
We want to customize our deployment.
We've got a hundred or ten thousand or a
million machines that we need to deploy
and we want to add some more customization to this.
So how else can we do that?
Well the first thing that we can do
is we can install additional software.
There is an Automator action that's built in the system
image utility that allows us to specify additional packages
of software and scripts that we
want to install after our restore.
Now this may seem to make more sense
with a package based deployment.
So remember the package based deployment started with our
Mac OS X installer DVD and if we just install Mac OS X,
obviously there's a lot of other
things that we want to add on there,
say Microsoft Office, Parallels, lots of other things.
It does have some merit in a restore
based deployment too though.
Anytime you factor out the software that's going to go
out to your machines, it gives you a lot more flexibility
in what software gets installed
onto each one of your end machines.
I'm not going to go into a lot of detail on this either.
There's a lot of different ways to create
packages, there's tons of resources
on the internet, Mac enterprise is a great site for this.
There was also a session yesterday, Session 304,
that went into a lot of detail
on the why and the how of package based deployment.
I encourage you to review those slides and check
out that podcast when that becomes available.
So there's this thing, system image
utility really leverages installer.
That's just the technology that's built into Mac
OS X and installer's great but it's an installer.
It just kind of installs things.
So the only way that we can legitimately
customize or extend the functionality
of System Image Utility is by adding package installers.
That's kind of what installers is built to handle,
so that's what System Image Utility can do.
With that condition in mind, maybe we
should sharpen our pencils and figure
out what else we can do with package installers.
So a lot of you probably already know package
installers can also run shell scripts.
And there's this thing that we like to
call payload free package installers
that won't install anything at all
it will just run a shell script.
So this is great.
I've got a shell script that I've used for
deployment before, I can take my shell script,
drop it into a package installer, I can drop
my package installer into System Image Utility,
System Image Utility will create my net install set
and copy my package installer into the net install set.
I'm going to net boot my clients, they'll
restore and then they'll install my package
which doesn't install anything but
it does run my post lite script.
This is great.
Whew. Let me ask you something though.
When I said Automator's now part of the DNA of system image
utility, did you think I'd stand up here and say we're going
to customize our Mac OS X mass deployment
with a whole bunch of shell scripts?
I hope not.
I really hope not.
If I were to stop here, we wouldn't
be anywhere closer to the idea
of deployment solution than we ever have been before.
We'd still be longing for additional functionality
and we'd be turning to command line tools
and shell scripts to customize our Mac OS X deployment.
To customize the deployment of
hundreds of thousands of machines.
Who wakes up in the morning and
says gee I can't wait to get to work
to tweak some shell scripts to
manage my thousands of machines?
( Laughter )
>> Yes I know I hear some, I know I hear you
and I am not knocking shell scripts, I'm not.
A lot of us here are plenty comfortable with shell scripts.
Heck you know I am.
I love them they're great.
But there's a lot of system administrators
that do want a graphical user interface
for specifying the post restore customizations.
In particular, I mean we're a bunch
of Mac heads here for the most part.
Ninety nine percent maybe?
If we want to woo system administrators from
say the Windows platform to our platform,
deployment is one of the first things that gets in the way.
How do I deploy?
And if we're going to shove shell scripts in their face,
maybe that's not the best way to get them to our platform.
So there has to be a better way.
And again, I'm not knocking shell scripts.
They're great.
They give us unattended automation and
the number of command line utilities
that are built into Mac OS X, it's just incredible.
You can do anything with Unix that's what I always say.
It's the interface where things break down though.
You set some newbie system administrator in front of
a terminal window and it's got the blinking cursor
and they're supposed to type text
into it to make it do things?
That's where things fall down.
Fortunately Automator is here to bridge the gap.
So deployment already consists
of a series of discrete tasks.
You can line up a list of tasks
and that would be your deployment.
We've also recognized that having modularity in
our deployment tools gives us a lot of flexibility
into how much customization we
add into our deployment solution.
So all that we need to do now, as developers and system
administrators is create an Automator action for each task
that we want to achieve in our deployment.
These Automator actions will provide a very
friendly interface for the case specific options,
just the information that they need to provide to
customize it to their own situation while it's gearing all
of the back end details, everything that's
driven by command line tools and shell scripts.
So Apple can provide all of this functionality
there is definitely no lack of talent
at Apple for creating very innovative solutions.
But I think that the developer community, the
deployment community can play a large role
in not only defining what functionality should exist,
raise your hand if you've ever submitted a bug report,
but also in developing that functionality.
Automator actions of course can be written using
Objective-C, obviously we would assume that.
But they can also be written using AppleScript Studio and a
lot of system administrators are familiar with AppleScript,
even coming from the Windows world,
they're familiar with, what's it called?
Visual basic or something like that.
So we, deployers, we know what we need.
We can develop this functionality
and when I say we, I mean you.
( Laughter )
>> So here's my hit list, this is the list of
functionality that I would like to see in addition
to the core functionality that is
provided by Apple and System Image Utility.
You probably recognize a lot of items up here on this list.
This is a list of the shell scripts that I've
included with net restore over the last several years.
I think that we can do some really cool things
with these shell scripts using Automator.
So what I'd like to do next is take a look at what
we can do with one of these items, with Automator.
Before I get into that though, as you probably
imagined, there are some implementation details.
There's some things to keep in mind.
So before we get into the example,
I want to lay some ground rules.
First of all, remember that the product of our
Automator action has to be a package installer.
That's what we're going to be able to put into
our net install image is a package installer.
So whatever we do in our action,
we have to put a package somewhere.
And what we're going to do with that package is,
it's going to be a payload free package installer,
it's going to have a postflight script and whatever we
provide in the interface, we're going to take the options
that the user specified and we're going to use
that to populate variables in our post lite script.
If there are any additional utilities that we
need to, need in addition to our shell script,
maybe a custom command line application, we're going to have
to include that as a resource in our packages installer.
If our custom utility requires any frameworks
that aren't part of the base net install set,
so that net boot image that we net boot from
for deployment, things get a little bit hairy.
You would actually have to crack open that net
boot image and install your own frameworks.
Try to avoid that.
And I'm speaking to you as developers.
What I would like to see is a deployment community where
we contribute Automator actions to a collective whole.
So if you're going to develop Automator actions
for that community try to avoid the type
of situation that has lots of external dependencies.
Finally System Image Utility acting
as a work flow administrator,
it passes a dictionary of information
from each action down to the next.
So we're actually going to take that dictionary
of information and use one of the arrays within it
to let System Image Utility know where we're
putting functionality into this process.
So those are the ground rules.
Set firmware password.
I love this one.
It's really super simple, the firmware password
post action script is probably nine lines of code,
is really easy and there's only one variable.
So I think it's going to be a really
good example for demonstrating how
to create an Automator action that
plugs in to System Image Utility.
So to do this, here's what we would do, and again,
you can create Automator actions in Objective-C,
it's probably what I would prefer but for the interest
of system administrators who don't have lots of time
to learn Objective-C we're doing it in AppleScript Studio.
So step one: create a new apple script Automator action.
You do that in Xcode.
Next go ahead and set up a really
simple interface in interface builder.
In this case it's really simple, there's
just a couple secure text fields.
I had another little field with a checkmark
just so people know if their passwords match.
Next, we need to create our payload free package installer.
Now we could leverage the package maker command line utility
to do this for us programmatically when our action runs.
But this payload free package installer
is really pretty simple.
So I think that would add just a lot of extra code.
So step one for me is to just go into package
maker and create my payload free package installer.
It's going to have an empty folder for the contents
and then we have just two things that
we're going to include as scripts.
We're going to include that OFPW utility
that's hosted by Mac enterprise dot org.
That's the thing that actually sets the firmware password,
and then we're going to include
our template post lite script.
So in the script you can see its pretty boiler plate.
The one thing of interest is the password variable.
We're going to have to change that password variable
during the runtime of our action so I like to set this
to some easily parseable string in
this case percent password percent.
I've got a nice one liner in Perl that's
going to replace that really easily for us.
So once we've created our payload free package
installer we're going to drop that package
into our Automator action project in Xcode.
It will pop up a little dialogue asking if we want
to copy it into our Xcode project, click yes,
that's what we want to do because when our action
runs, I'm sorry when we build our action in Xcode,
it's actually going to copy that package
installer into our actions bundle.
So wherever our action goes, be it distributed
on the internet or just around our network,
that payload free package installer the template,
is going to be right there within our action.
So the next thing that we need to do is configure our
Automator action to accept input from System Image Utility.
And last Friday I discovered a very interesting thing.
It only affects AppleScript Automator actions and
I'm hesitant to even describe this little caveat
because it's a one time thing and
hopefully it's going to be so transparent
to you all that you'll never have to deal with it.
But here it is.
AppleScript Automator actions will spit out an NS
Apple event descriptor instead of an NS mutable array.
And that's kind of icky.
So we actually need a converter
action that will convert the output
from our AppleScript Automator action
to the next System Image Utility action.
Again, I've already done this for you.
In the sample code that I'll show you at the end of this,
I've included a converter action that does this for you.
As long as you include that in your project, or
you include it in your Automator actions folder,
you're going to be all set and
you're never even going to notice.
Anyway so for reference, here it is.
This is what your info.plist has
to look like for your Automator action.
I feel like I missed something.
I did miss something, I missed a slide.
No I didn't, I guess its next.
That or it mysteriously disappeared and I
wanted to see if I could act on my feet.
So the next thing that we need to do during runtime
is we need to take the input that we received
and we need to, it did miss a slide, I swear.
I'm sorry, there was a slide here that was supposed to say
what we're supposed to do during the action of our script.
It's pretty important because we need
to do two things when our action runs,
we need to copy our package installer
to some temporary location.
We're going to do that with a really simple do shell
script ditto my package to temp location, one line.
And we need another line that's going to
take the input from the user, the password,
and plug that into our template post lite script.
Another one liner.
Do shell script, Perl, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, path my shell script.
You'll see that, I'm sorry it's not up here.
So once we're done with that we need to take
that dictionary of information that was passed
from the previous Automator action and modify
it to let it know where our package is located.
So within that dictionary of input from the previous
action, there is an array keyed by package list.
That package list just contains an array of paths to
various packages that we want to add to our net install set.
So we're going to plug in the path to
our package which is temp FW dot package,
and then as our Automator work flow runs, it eventually
is going to get down to the create image action
and that create image action is going to create our
net install set, it's going to create our master image,
it's then going to iterate through this package list
array and copy each package into our net install set.
So that's all there is to it.
All that we had to do is take input from the user, plug
that into a template post lite script, pop out a package
and let System Image Utility know where it is because then
System Image Utility is going to do the rest of it for us.
Piece of cake right?
There's like four months between now and Leopard, you
guys should crank out like a dozen of these at least.
So the sample code project that I developed to describe
this procedure is available up on the ADC website at least
if it isn't right now it should be
available within the next couple days.
I encourage you guys to take a look at that.
Download it, check it out and please
go ahead and try to create your own.
Automators are very empowering technology, or
the deployers, we always rely on somebody else
to give us the tools to customize our deployment.
Now it's in our hands.
We can do it.
And again, I say we, I mean you.
And we can do this now with the tools that are in Leopard.
So of course I use the word now very liberally.
Leopard's not going to be available just yet.
Up next is Chris LaSalle, he's going to show
us what Pixar is doing with the current set
of tools for their Mac OS X mass deployment.
( Applause )
>> Hi, hi.
I'm Chris and I am the lead infrastructure
admin for the Mac group at Pixar.
And I'm going to talk about how we use net boot in something
we call Metro which is our Macintosh deployment system
that we built back in the Jaguar days and it's constantly
being modified and we're really looking forward to Leopard.
First a little bit about our environment.
At Pixar we have four buildings on one campus, we have
about nine hundred Macs spread across those buildings,
and nine hundred Linux machines and about
two hundred Windows machines as workstations.
Our network infrastructure is pretty diverse it's grown
up over the last twenty years from
a very Linux based background.
We have an LDAP database that's our authoritative source
of information for users and machines and everything else,
it's all in LDAP and our NFS data and NIS data and DHCP
data and DNS data all comes to out of our LDAP database.
Most of the Mac accounts, even though the Macs are
all on this network and all have access to this stuff,
our Macs are all pretty standalone,
they don't net boot for normal use.
They are local, they have local accounts, they have
access to the network but everything's all local.
We've done that for various reasons especially historical.
We're looking forward to getting away from that but for
now that's how it is and Metro is built around that.
But we still use net boot as an
administrative tool for deploying all
of these Macs in this really complex environment.
So Metro is a collection of shell scripts of course,
and PHP scripts and Perl scripts that all work together
to do four basic tasks that we use as administrators.
The users never really see net boot.
But as administrators we use it primarily to deploy new
Macs, that's the most thing, the thing we do every day.
We pull a Mac out of the box and
we net boot it and we use Metro.
We also use it to troubleshoot and diagnose
Macs that are out there on a user's desk.
And say we need to run a disk utility on it or
something to do some repair, the admin will net boot it
and then have all the tools they expect to
have and they're not booted off a hard drive
so they can start doing things to the hard drive.
We use it to redeploy existing Macs.
We've got one in inventory, we need to send it back
out to another user, we'll net boot it and use Metro
to completely reconfigure it for the new user.
And we use it for major OS upgrades
say from Tiger to Leopard.
We plan to be using Metro, we also used
it, we've used it since the days of Jaguar.
That was our first, Jaguar to Panther was our very
first time really pushing Metro to its limits.
And of course it's all based upon net boot.
We couldn't do it without net boot so
let's talk about how we use net boot.
We start with a net boot image, using the
traditional Tiger net boot image tools,
we build one with system image
utility, but we really strip it down.
We customize it as much as possible and we
take everything out of it that we don't need.
And then when it's made our image, that's not stripped
down enough, so we will mount the image and we used
to do this manually, we would go through and tweak the
image and remove things and add things and do what we wanted
with it, but we finally said, no we do
this too much lets make a shell script.
So we made a shell script to do all that stuff.
So that script will mount the image after
we've made it and apply all these modifications
to it and it will strip it down even farther.
And then we'll put it on our net boot server and
use server admin to set it up and make it live.
Here's an example of some of the
things that, that shell script does.
We do more than this, but we will resize the image as
appropriate depending upon what we want to do with it.
First off we'll remove most of the applications from it
like since every net booted machine at Pixar is being used
by an administrator for administrative
purposes, we don't need iTunes on there.
So we'll take iTunes off.
We'll take Chess off, we'll take almost everything
in the applications folder off of
there, because we just don't need it.
We'll also set the root password because most
of the administrators will log in as root
to do various high level things with it, we will create a
single admin account which gets used for other purposes.
And this is all happening on the image
as it's mounted just on our work station.
We'll create the SSH keys because most of our
administrators are used to using the command line,
they'll want to net boot a machine and SSH into it
to start running some tools that we have on there.
So if we don't generate these keys on the disk image itself
then every time a client net boots, it's net booting fresh
and it's going to generate those keys the first time you SSH
in and that takes about thirty seconds on a slow machine.
So you sit there and wait, and wait and wait.
So in order just to avoid that way, we generate
them once and then we've got the SSH keys.
We also, and this is important, we create a little RC
dot local script that we put onto the net boot image.
This little shell script will run during the boot process
and it will look at the environment it's booting in
and kick off a cascade of other scripts that will allow us
to do those four different functions that we want to do.
And we also just touch a little file on the image itself so
that some of these scripts which run both in the net booted
and the locally booted environments, they need to
know whether or not they're net booted very quickly,
so we just touch a little file on
the image and if that file is there
and knows it's net booted, and
the scripts connect appropriately.
So when a machine net boots at Pixar, the
little RC dot local script starts running.
And it will basically branch into one
of two different modes of net booting.
It will do a normal net boot in which case the administrator
can log in to the GUI, or can log into the terminal,
and we use that mainly for a new
machine deployment and for diagnostics
and troubleshooting when there's a problem with the machine.
But we also have kind of like a net install
process we have an auto install process
where the RC dot local strip will see certain things
happening on the disk drive and on the net boot image
and it will say, okay I need to start immediately
installing a system and it will go do that.
And in that case it won't give anyone
an option to log in to the GUI.
So let's look at the normal net boot process.
In this process RC dot local will take a look
at things and say oh I need to boot normally,
this is what happens if you just
boot a machine with the N key down.
During the boot process, RC dot local will, through
other scripts, it will install various GUI admin tools
like Carbon Copy Cloner or Disk Utility or, well Disk
Utility is already there, but it will do Disk Warrior
or any number of other admin tools that we might
want to do troubleshooting work on the machine.
It will also install all of the command line tools that
we use at Pixar that we've home grown over the years
that we're all used to having on every machine.
It will just install them so that when
an admin logs in through terminal,
they'll have the tools they're used to having.
It also configures the environment
both in the GUI and the shell.
For example it modifies roots dock during the boot process
so that when it finally boots up and administrator can log
in to the GUI, and the dock with all the tools
is right there, and it does this on the fly so that
when there's a new version of something or when we
want to add another tool, we just change a script
and it suddenly appears the next time someone net boots.
It also modifies the shell environment it will create
new path environments it will create everything
that the admin needs so that when they
log into the machine, start working on it,
they have the tools that they expect
on any Pixar configured machine.
Most importantly it will activate a web front end.
It downloads from our central server a bunch of PHP pages
that it puts into library web server documents it turns
on Apache after activating PHP, and then once the
machine comes up, the admin goes back to their desk.
Actually they just, the admin will take a machine out of
the box, plug it into the network, plug it into a keyboard,
hold down the M key and boot it, once they wait a few
seconds they go back to their desk, they open up a web page
to the net boot server which shows a
log of all the net booting machines.
And they can see the machine that they just net booted,
they click a button, and they will see this webpage.
This webpage gathers information from the machine
itself and gives them some fields to fill out
and once they fill this all out they will create the L
app entry in our central LDAP server for this machine
from which all of the other stuff
about this machine will get created.
So they can fill out this form,
click the create or update button,
and the record is either created or updated as appropriate.
And they do this from their desk after they've
booted the machine and so they can boot their machine
in another room and do all this from their webpage.
Then they go back after they've created the LDAP page,
they get a similar page but this page let's them decide how
and what they're going to actually install onto the machine.
They can select which of the hard
drives that's connected to the machine.
They can choose whether or not they're going to
erase it or repair it before they run an installer.
They can choose which installer they're going to run
or they can let the system just choose the default
and solar for an Intel machine or PPC machine or whatever.
Or if they've got a machine that's going to be used
for certain activities that needs an older version
of the system, it will know that automatically.
And if they just let it by default,
it will install the right system.
They can choose to install some of the network
installed packages that we have available
that we build our own little packages for and they
come down through the network after the installation.
All they do is click that button when
they fill out the form that says build out
and the machine immediately starts installing.
And they can just kind of watch the
progress on a couple of different web pages.
In about twenty to thirty minutes, it's done, they can
unplug it, take it to the user, it's completely configured.
So that's how we build out a new machine.
( Applause )
>> For existing machines that are already out
there, we say we want to go from Tiger to Leopard.
We will, and this is how we move from
ten three to 10.4 and actually even
from ten two to ten three, we started with this.
On every Pixar configured machine there's a little shell
script that we will use to initiate an auto install.
So we can just SSH into a machine and will run
this command that will tell it to auto install.
It will net boot but this time instead of doing all
this on the fly configuration during the boot process,
it will say oh I'm just immediately
going to start installing.
So first it does a couple of preinstall tasks because
it doesn't bother installing all the admin tools
and all that stuff because it doesn't need to.
All it needs to do is start installing.
So it first checks like, if on a laptop okay,
is there a battery or are we plugged in.
If it's just running on battery
power it will stop and give an error.
Is there enough hard drive space for what I want to do?
It runs a bunch of checks to make sure things are good.
Assuming they're all good, it immediately starts running
the installer program using the installer package
that we specified.
And after the install it will run
all of the configuration for Pixar.
So that all happens while the machine is at the users desk.
We can SSH in, type a command, the
machine net boots, off it goes.
Twenty minutes later the user can
log back in, it's got the new OS.
So how do we initiate that process?
Here's the shell script that we
use or a little bit of it anyway.
Basically the admin makes an SSH connection to the user's
machine, runs the script, it asks a bunch of questions.
The script is kind of like a mix of the start of the
preference pane, and the build out webpage that you just saw
where it asks like which disk do you want to install on.
It will ask the admin a bunch of questions,
if they want they can erase the drive,
they can run a repair on the drive, they choose which
drive and this little script will just write a bunch
of little files onto the machine in a
little hidden directory and then the RC'd
out local file during the net boot
process, will see those and say okay I need
to start installing using these parameters.
And off it goes.
So that's how the auto install process works
and we'll probably be using something
very similar when we move to Leopard.
We're hoping actually to write a GUI wrapper
with AppleScript Studio or something around this,
so that when we make the move to Leopard, we
can actually have the users do it themselves.
We'll just say run this program, fill out
the form, type your password, and go away.
( Laughter )
>> And come back in a half an hour, go have lunch.
( Applause )
>> And then after that they'll
come back and they'll have Leopard.
So where are we going with Metro from here?
Well Metro's been around for awhile now so we're trying
to, we're always rewriting it and trying to make it better.
Right now I'm working on it to make it a little
more modular so that we can make changes on the fly.
I'm also implementing a live environment versus
a development environment on the same server
so that my co-workers can connect in to
use it while I'm continuing to work on it.
And then as I make small improvements
I can move them over easily and quickly
and my co-workers will get the benefits of that work.
Especially with Leopard now we're
constantly reevaluating what we have to do.
There's so much new stuff and there's a lot of
better ways we could implement the stuff we've done.
So we're really looking forward to Leopard
and as Mike was just talking about,
we're looking forward to how we might be able to use the
new System Image Utility, it has a lot more flexibility
and we can probably get rid of some
of our shell scripts and use that.
So that is Pixar's Metro and hopefully
it will be inspiring to some folks.
And now I'm going to hand it back to Joel, thanks.